As South Korea Gets Ready to Vote, Women Don’t Like the Choices
Women took the lead in the protests against South Korea’s last president. But the men running to replace him are saying little about the discrimination they face.


Listen to this article · 8:26 min Learn more
Share full article


People dressed in coats stand in the street waving Korean flags.
Many young women joined the rallies calling for President Yoon Suk Yeol’s impeachment after he imposed martial law on South Korea in December.Credit...Jun Michael Park for The New York Times
Choe Sang-Hun
By Choe Sang-Hun
Reporting from Seoul

May 26, 2025
Young South Korean women are often dismissed by men as apolitical, but they were prominent in the movement to impeach former President Yoon Suk Yeol, whom they accused of encouraging contempt and even hatred for them. They were among the first to take to the streets to condemn ​Mr. Yoon’s short-lived imposition of martial law in December​, enlivening large rallies with K-pop ​songs and glow sticks.

​But as South Korea prepares to elect Mr. Yoon’s replacement on June 3, many women say their priorities — making the country safer and fairer for them — are taking a back seat, and not for the first time​.

They endure some of the worst gender-based discrimination in the developed world, including lower pay and underrepresentation in management and politics, as well as rampant online sexual abuse that the law has done little to stop. But addressing such issues has become one of South Korea’s most politically delicate subjects.

With the economy in a slump and jobs scarce, many young men consider themselves victims of reverse discrimination and bristle at any hint of a feminist agenda in government​. Mr. Yoon and his right-wing People Power Party leverage​d such sentiments to win the young male vote, and the presidency, in 2022. During the campaign, he said there was no structural discrimination against women in South Korea. ​

Lee Jae-myung, who lost that election to Mr. Yoon by a razor-thin margin, has a substantial lead in the polls this time. But though he has recognized the “leading role” that young women played in Mr. Yoon’s ouster, Mr. Lee and his left-wing Democratic Party are being careful not to provoke male voters with messages that could be seen as feminist.​

Image
A man in a suit holds his arms aloft with a row of people in blue jackets standing behind smiling and applauding.
Lee Jae-myung, who narrowly lost the 2022 presidential election to Mr. Yoon, has a substantial polling lead in the June 3 election to replace him. Credit...Chang W. Lee/The New York Times
Subscribe to The Times to read as many articles as you like.

Choe Sang-Hun is the lead reporter for The Times in Seoul, covering South and North Korea.

A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2025, Section A, Page 4 of the New York edition with the headline: South Korea Vote Nears, but Women Don’t Like the Choices. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe
See more on: People Power Party, Lee Jae-myung
Share full article


Site Index
Site Information Navigation
© 2025 The New York Times Company
NYTCoContact UsAccessibilityWork with usAdvertiseT Brand StudioYour Ad ChoicesPrivacy PolicyTerms of ServiceTerms of SaleSite MapHelpSubscriptions
